Right about the time
I started studying the Bible,
an opportunity came up for me
to start doing secretarial work
at a church.
I was the one who cared for all
of the money that the church would receive.
But at that moment,
I didn’t see any problem
with staying where I worked.
I studied the Bible
and learned that the festivals
I used to participate in
were displeasing to Jehovah.
But it did not seem possible
that I would be
the only one not participating
in those festivals.
These opportunities
brought families closer together,
and they were fun too.
One night at a meeting,
I was talking with an elder,
and he told me that I wouldn’t even be able
to give student parts at the Kingdom Hall,
since I was still working
as a secretary at the church.
That made me very sad
because I found myself
just receiving guidance from Jehovah
and learning his truths,
but I was not giving back anything to him
despite what he was doing for me.
However, I have to admit
that I still hadn’t
completely made up my mind,
since my husband had back surgery
and wasn’t able to work at the time.
We had our little daughter to care for,
so I kept thinking: ‘What should I do?
‘Right now,
this is the only money we have coming in.’
I prayed a lot to Jehovah
for help with this issue.
I thought about Jehovah’s feelings.
I didn’t want to do anything
that hurt Jehovah.
When I stopped participating
in religious festivals,
my family stopped speaking to me.
When it was time for the festivals,
it made me think that they were together
and I was by myself.
So at times, I cried.
I meditated
on God’s promise at Psalm 27:10.
Jehovah promised me
that if my parents abandoned me,
he would receive me as his child.
It helped me to stand firm.
Personally, I tried to attend the meetings
and participate in the ministry too.
All of these activities
made me feel
that the congregation is like a family
and that Jehovah
is the Father of all of us.
But I never forgot my parents.
So I tried to help them
in whatever ways I could.
I took about three or four days of vacation
to go help them harvest rice.
I had great help from my instructor.
Just as Jehovah doesn’t force us,
she didn’t force me.
As she told experiences and showed me
in the Bible
what really pleases Jehovah,
it made me realize
that I had to make a decision.
As my Bible study got deeper,
I began to realize
that I really was already loving Jehovah
and wanted to please him.
Before Jehovah, my conscience
was already affecting me.
I had to make a decision on his side.
That’s exactly what I did.
Two weeks later, I got a job,
and it was close to my home.
I was able to gain
a clean conscience before Jehovah.
I have seen this in my life:
Anyone who trusts in Jehovah is not helpless.
When I told my parents
that although I changed my religion,
I still loved them,
they started to open up
and talk to me gradually.
So I invited them to attend a meeting.
When my father
attended the meeting, he said:
“Oh! You made a good decision, my son.”
Then I was very happy.
I still hope
that my family will one day study the Bible
and worship Jehovah along with me.